# Using CNN to classify different types of rashes
“Rash Image Classification: What is it?”

## Team Members
Megha Gupta (guptamegha2020) & Alex Bell (bell306)

## Project Decription
Accurate identification of skin rashes is essential in the maintenance of our overall health. It importantly facilitates directed and timely treatment, as some rashes signal mild conditions that can simply be treated with at-home remedies, whereas other rashes can indicate underlying medical concerns that require professional medical attention. This said, not every rash has a distinct presentation on the skin (as many share similar characteristics), making it difficult to visually differentiate certain types. However, by leveraging machine learning techniques, we can use a trained PyTorch-based model to identify different rashes in accordance with user-input images. For simplicity, this model will be trained on (and therefore able to identify) images of rashes caused by: Lyme Disease, Poison Ivy, Food Allergens (Hives), and Ringworm. The current plan is that four separate image-based datasets will be used to train the model, one dataset for each of the four rash-causing conditions that are listed above. Ideally, we are able to find a single dataset containing images of rashes from all four conditions, or we are able to combine the four separate datasets into a single functioning dataset. At this time, we are still searching for suitable datasets (a few potential datasets have been found on Kaggle.com). For model testing, a random collection of skin rash images will be used, ensuring that each image is representative of a rash caused by Lyme Disease, Poison Ivy, Food Allergens (Hives) or Ringworm respectively. The desired accuracy of the model is at least 85% in all test cases. In terms of the overall goal, this image-recognition program is designed to be an at-home tool for individuals experiencing a skin rash, as it will help them decide the appropriate next steps (i.e. professional medical support vs. basic at-home interventions) based on the specific output rash type that is determined from the input image. Also, in conjunction with symptoms reported by a patient, this program can be leveraged by healthcare professionals as a means to help them verify their patient’s rash type and therefore provide support for a diagnosis.
